config_instruction.md, before:

- Communication Parameters (used for ssh communication from control machine to remote machines)
  - server_names: names of servers in cloudlab, corresponding to the server regions listed at https://www.cloudping.co/grid
  - cloudlab_user: the username of the cloudlab account connecting to the cluster
  - experiment_name: the name of the cloudlab experiment
  - project_name: the name of the cloudlab project that the experiment is run under
  - host_format_str: the ssh url for cloudlab machines of a specific cluster, can be found in the manifest section of a cloudlab experiment
- Network Delay Parameters
  - emulate_wan_latency: boolean that determines if artificial latency will be added between the machines to simulate wan latency
  - server_ping_latencies: a dictionary of dictionaries. The first key identifies a specific machine i. The second keys identify the desired latency between i and the other machines. This can be automatically generated via the `generate_server_ping_latencies` library. Look at that library's readme for more information. 
  - max_bandwidth: The maximum bandwidth between machines. Check the PARAMETERS section of the tc (traffic control) man page to see available units of transfer rates. 
- Folder Location Parameters (control locations are by default in the root folder, this is because disk image data can not be stored in standard user home directories. for convenient sshing, remote locations are in the user's home folder)
  - gus_epaxos_control_src_directory: path to a directory on the control machine that contains the gus-epaxos git repository
  - gryff_control_src_directory: path to a directory on the control machine that contains the gryff git repository
  - base_control_experiment_directory: path to a directory on the control machine where experiment result subfolders will be stored
  - base_remote_experiment_directory: path to a directory on the remote machines where experiment result subfolders will be stored
  - remote_bin_directory: path to a directory on remote machines where server/client binaries will be stored
- Replication Protocol Parameters
  - replication_protocol: gus, gryff, or epaxos
  - number_of_replicas: 3 or 5
  - durable: true or false
- Client Parameters
  - experiment_length: in seconds
  - write_percentage: Floating point number between 0 and 1
  - conflict_percentage: Integer between 0 and 100. 
  - clients_per_replica

Commit message:

add support for layered experiments

config_instruction.md, after:

- Communication Parameters (used for ssh communication from control machine to remote machines)
  - server_names: names of servers in cloudlab, corresponding to the server regions listed at https://www.cloudping.co/grid
  - cloudlab_user: the username of the cloudlab account connecting to the cluster
  - experiment_name: the name of the cloudlab experiment
  - project_name: the name of the cloudlab project that the experiment is run under
  - host_format_str: the ssh url for cloudlab machines of a specific cluster, can be found in the manifest section of a cloudlab experiment
- Network Delay Parameters
  - emulate_wan_latency: boolean that determines if artificial latency will be added between the machines to simulate wan latency
  - server_ping_latencies: a dictionary of dictionaries. The first key identifies a specific machine i. The second keys identify the desired latency between i and the other machines. This can be automatically generated via the `generate_server_ping_latencies` library. Look at that library's readme for more information. 
  - max_bandwidth: The maximum bandwidth between machines. Check the PARAMETERS section of the tc (traffic control) man page to see available units of transfer rates. 
- Folder Location Parameters (control locations are by default in the root folder, this is because disk image data can not be stored in standard user home directories. for convenient sshing, remote locations are in the user's home folder)
  - gus_epaxos_control_src_directory: path to a directory on the control machine that contains the gus-epaxos git repository
  - gryff_control_src_directory: path to a directory on the control machine that contains the gryff git repository
  - base_control_experiment_directory: path to a directory on the control machine where experiment result subfolders will be stored
  - base_remote_experiment_directory: path to a directory on the remote machines where experiment result subfolders will be stored
  - remote_bin_directory: path to a directory on remote machines where server/client binaries will be stored
  - redis_control_bin: path to a binary on the control machine that contains redis server code
- Replication Protocol Parameters
  - layered: true or false
  - replication_protocol: gus, gryff, or epaxos
  - number_of_replicas: 3 or 5 (or 7 or 9 in layered experiments)
  - durable: true or false
- Client Parameters
  - experiment_length: in seconds
  - write_percentage: Floating point number between 0 and 1
  - conflict_percentage: Integer between 0 and 100. 
  - clients_per_replica: only works for non-layered experiments, layered will always use 1 client for all replicas
