plotFigs/README.md, before:

# Figure Plotting Library
## Table of Contents
- Dependencies
- Background
- Workflow
- Package Design
- How to Run

## Dependencies
### Code
- Python 3.10 (for running experiments automatically, calculating stats, plotting data)
- gnuplot
- matplotlib


## TODO
- Need to finish converting plotting code from gnuplot to matplotlib
- Need to adjust scaling for log latencies (fig 11) such that yticks (.9, .99 and .999) are evenly spaced
- Need to finish code version such that latency files are directly converted into numpy arrays of the data instead of being written to csv files first
   - This would be a cleaner implementation
   - Already completed for fig 8
- Need to do plotting code for figs9, 10, 12



## Background
In order to understand the plotting code, one must understand what data is outputted by an experiment.

###  What is outputted from an experiment?
As they are running, each process (master, server, client) outputs information into two logs: a standard output log, and a standard error log. These files can provide useful information when experiments don't work as expected.

The client process in particular will produce some extra output. Detailed below are the outputs of interest.  

#### Latency
These are contained in files that start with `latFileRead` or `latFileWrite`. These files contain the latency of every client request that was sent during the experiment (the time in milliseconds between sending a request and getting a response from a server).

These latencies are organized in two ways: by operation type and server number. In order to analyze write commands and read commands separately, the latencies of read commands are stored in `latFileRead` and the latencies of the write commands are stored in `latFileWrite`. To plot data with the same amount of latencies from each server, the latencies are also seperated by server. For example, with 3 servers, there would be `latFileRead-0.txt`, `latFileRead-1.txt`, and `latFileRead-2.txt`.

#### Throughput
This is contained in a file called `lattput.txt`. Every couple of seconds while the experiment is running, the client will print a row of data into this file. One of the columns corresponds to the total throughput of the system (number of requests completed / time of experiment in seconds).

To get the average throughput of the system, we run `client_metrics.py` on the client folder, which will print out a dictionary of statistics. The exact statistics can be found by reading through the code.

## Plotting Workflow
Each set of figures vary in how data is collected and plotted. I will detail how each figure is plotted by their number in the Gus paper. These figures correspond to the data in the `latencies`, `throughput-latency`, `data-size-latencies`, and `write-ratio-throughput` folders. 

The code that plots each of these figures is likely commented out in `plots_figs.py`. Comment and uncomment the corresponding sections to get the plots you want.   

### Figure 6 - Tail Latency
Figure 6 graphs a cumulative distribution function of the latencies of Gus, Gryff, and Epaxos with two independent variables: conflict percentage and operation type.

The workflow from experiment data to tail latency plots can be split into 3 steps: latency aggregation, percentile calculation, percentile plotting.

#### Latency Aggregation
Using the files inside the client log folder, we aggregate the latencies of a specific optype (for example, `latFileRead-0.txt`, `latFileRead-1.txt`, and `latFileRead-2.txt`) and store them in a python list. These client log folders are manually placed into and automatically read from the `latencies` folder. 

When we aggregate the latencies, we "normalize" them to prevent the data from being skewed. By "normalize", we mean that if some servers were able to receive more client requests than other servers, we collect the same number of latencies from each server. For example, it is possible that server 0 only handled 12,000 client requests, while server 1 and 2 handled 13,000 client requests. In this case, we take 12,000 latencies from each server, randomly selecting a subset of the latencies. This way, the latencies of one server don't get more precedence than the other servers when we calculate percentiles.

Since figure 6 features the CDFs of both read and write latencies, we extract the normalized latencies of both reads and writes, for all 3 protocols, and all 3 conflict rates.

#### Percentile Calculation
Once the latencies are collected, we use numpy on the aggregated latencies, calculating 1 to 99 percentile latency (incrementing by 1 percentile). We then put these percentiles in a csv, with the second column containing the percentile and the first column containing the corresponding latency.

In addition to calculating 1 to 99 percentile latency, to really focus on the tail latency, we also calculate a log scaled cdf, with most percentile calculated being in between the 90th and 100th percentiles. Since the log scaled cdfs didn't show anything that couldn't be seen with the regular scaled cdfs, we chose not to show them in our paper.

Percentiles are calculated for all 3 protocols, all 3 conflict rates, and both optypes. 
These csvs are automatically generated in the `csvs` folder.

#### Percentile Plotting
With the data nicely formatted into csv files, we use gnuplot to plot the percentiles. These plots are automatically generated in the `plots` folder.

#### Adding log scale
Getting the log scaled csvs requires the following background knowledge:
1. In `calculate_fig_6_csvs()`, the calls to latencies_to_csv() actually return two things. They return normal percentiles and log scale percentiles, but the log scale percentile csvs are currently not being stored into variables.
3. The next thing is you have to plot the log scale percentile csvs, If you try to do this normally with `cdf_csvs_to_plot` in `main()`, the plot won’t scale for you.
   When you call csvs_to_plot, add the argument `log=true`.

### Figure 7 - Tail Latency (n=5)
The workflow for figure 7 is the mostly the same as figure 6, except the conflict rate stays the same and latencies are aggregated from 5 servers instead of 3.

### Throughput vs. p50/p99.9 Latency
This figure requires data in a different format than the previous figures. In the interest of time, we manually collected and formatted the data for plotting. Automating this section will require some extra work. Below, I will detail the manual process.

To get the different throughput vs. latency points shown in the figure, we varied the number of clients that were communicating with the servers. Points with low latency/throughput corresponded with lower number of clients, points with high latency/throughput corresponded with a higher number of clients.

After running each experiment, we would run `client_metrics.py` on the resulting client folder. This would give us three stats of importance: p50 latency, p99.9 latency, and average throughput. We copied these stats into a single row of a csv file. You can find these csv files in the folder `throughput-latency`.

Afterwards, we plotted the csvs of each replication protocol using gnuplot. 

### Write Ratio vs. Throughput
This figure was also collected manually. We ran each replication protocol with the maximum clients it could handle without crashing, varied write percentage, and used `client_metrics.py` on the resulting client folders to give us average throughput. Afterwards, we plotted the csvs of each replication protocol using gnuplot. You can find these csvs in `write_ratio-throughput`.

### Layered (Replication Factor vs. Latency)
This figure was also collected manually. We ran a layered version of gus and giza with varying nodes and measured p99.99 read and write latency using `client_metrics.py`. The csvs are in `layered`. For convenience, the plotting code for the layered plots is all self contained in this folder. Just modify the csvs and run `gus-automation/plotFigs/layered/plot.py`.

### Data Size vs Read Latency
This figure was also collected manually, where we varied data size and used `client_metrics.py` to get p50 and p99 read latency with both Giza and Gus. Data was plotted with gnuplot. The csvs can be found in `data_size-latencies`.

### Scalability
This figure plotted data from Tempo and a scalable verison of Gus. The tempo percentiles were stored in json files from the tempo codebase, and the gus percentiles were calculated in a way similar to how figure 6 and 7 were calculated. For convenience, the plotting code for the scale plots is all self conatained in the `scale` folder. Just modify the gus latency folders or tempo json files and run `gus-automation/plotFigs/scale/plot.py`.

## Package Design
For figures 6 and 7, `plot_figs.py`, `folders_to_norm_latencies.py`, `latencies_to_csv.py`, and `csvs_to_plot.py` were used. Figures 8-11 do not use `folders_to_norm_latencies.py` and `csvs_to_plot.py`. Below I will detail what each file does.

### plot_figs.py
This file acts as the main function for the plotting of the figures. The user inputs the folder locations of the necessary data, and uses the functions in the files listed below to transform the client folders into plots.

The way we organized experiment data is as follows:
- The `latencies` folder corresponds with figures 6 through 7. Experiments are first sorted by replication protocol, and then by conflict rate.
- The `throughput-latency` folder corresponds with figure 8. The data is sorted by replication protocol.
- The `write-ratio-throughput` folder corresponds with figure 9, sorted by replicatoin protocol.
- We are missing the replication factor data that corresponds with figure 10, but I can get this later if needed.
- The `data_size-latencies` folder corresponds with figure 11.

*Note*: All of the experiment data was manually placed into these folders, just so it was easier for the code to find the data it needed. With this fixed structure we only had to input the location of three folders, and the code could figure out where everything else was by itself. 

### folders_to_norm_latencies.py
The function `extract_norm_latencies()` will do the latency aggregation mentioned above.


### latencies_to_csv.py
Given a python list of latencies, the function `latencies_to_csv()` will calculate latency percentiles from 1 to 99 and put them in a csv, returning the path to the newly created csv file. It will also make a second csv with log scaled percentiles.
   - NOTE: This section is beging changed (and already has been changed for fig8) so that latencies are calculated and stored in numpy arrays and then immediately plotted and instead of written to csv files as an intermediate step

### csvs_to_plot.py
Each figure has a specific function in this file that will take the necessary csv files and plot the data using gnuplot like it appears in the paper.

## How to Run
1. Run `python3 plot_figs.py`
2. Results will be in the `plots` target directory.
___
TODO: one thing I realized after writing this doc is that the latency percentiles calculated via `client_metrics.py` did not normalize latencies like the code in `plot_figs.py`. We'll need to fix this.

Commit message:

update readme with future TODOs

plotFigs/README.md, after:

# Figure Plotting Library
## Table of Contents
- Dependencies
- Background
- Workflow
- Package Design
- How to Run

## Dependencies
### Code
- Python 3.10 (for running experiments automatically, calculating stats, plotting data)
- gnuplot
- matplotlib


## TODO
- Need to finish converting plotting code from gnuplot to matplotlib
- Need to adjust scaling for log latencies (fig 11) such that yticks (.9, .99 and .999) are evenly spaced
- Need to finish code version such that latency files are directly converted into numpy arrays of the data instead of being written to csv files first
   - This would be a cleaner implementation
   - Already completed for fig 8
- Need to do plotting code for figs9, 10, 12
- NOTE much of the info below in this readme is for the old way of plotting


## Background
In order to understand the plotting code, one must understand what data is outputted by an experiment.

###  What is outputted from an experiment?
As they are running, each process (master, server, client) outputs information into two logs: a standard output log, and a standard error log. These files can provide useful information when experiments don't work as expected.

The client process in particular will produce some extra output. Detailed below are the outputs of interest.  

#### Latency
These are contained in files that start with `latFileRead` or `latFileWrite`. These files contain the latency of every client request that was sent during the experiment (the time in milliseconds between sending a request and getting a response from a server).

These latencies are organized in two ways: by operation type and server number. In order to analyze write commands and read commands separately, the latencies of read commands are stored in `latFileRead` and the latencies of the write commands are stored in `latFileWrite`. To plot data with the same amount of latencies from each server, the latencies are also seperated by server. For example, with 3 servers, there would be `latFileRead-0.txt`, `latFileRead-1.txt`, and `latFileRead-2.txt`.

#### Throughput
This is contained in a file called `lattput.txt`. Every couple of seconds while the experiment is running, the client will print a row of data into this file. One of the columns corresponds to the total throughput of the system (number of requests completed / time of experiment in seconds).

To get the average throughput of the system, we run `client_metrics.py` on the client folder, which will print out a dictionary of statistics. The exact statistics can be found by reading through the code.

## Plotting Workflow
Each set of figures vary in how data is collected and plotted. I will detail how each figure is plotted by their number in the Gus paper. These figures correspond to the data in the `latencies`, `throughput-latency`, `data-size-latencies`, and `write-ratio-throughput` folders. 

The code that plots each of these figures is likely commented out in `plots_figs.py`. Comment and uncomment the corresponding sections to get the plots you want.   

### Figure 6 - Tail Latency
Figure 6 graphs a cumulative distribution function of the latencies of Gus, Gryff, and Epaxos with two independent variables: conflict percentage and operation type.

The workflow from experiment data to tail latency plots can be split into 3 steps: latency aggregation, percentile calculation, percentile plotting.

#### Latency Aggregation
Using the files inside the client log folder, we aggregate the latencies of a specific optype (for example, `latFileRead-0.txt`, `latFileRead-1.txt`, and `latFileRead-2.txt`) and store them in a python list. These client log folders are manually placed into and automatically read from the `latencies` folder. 

When we aggregate the latencies, we "normalize" them to prevent the data from being skewed. By "normalize", we mean that if some servers were able to receive more client requests than other servers, we collect the same number of latencies from each server. For example, it is possible that server 0 only handled 12,000 client requests, while server 1 and 2 handled 13,000 client requests. In this case, we take 12,000 latencies from each server, randomly selecting a subset of the latencies. This way, the latencies of one server don't get more precedence than the other servers when we calculate percentiles.

Since figure 6 features the CDFs of both read and write latencies, we extract the normalized latencies of both reads and writes, for all 3 protocols, and all 3 conflict rates.

#### Percentile Calculation
Once the latencies are collected, we use numpy on the aggregated latencies, calculating 1 to 99 percentile latency (incrementing by 1 percentile). We then put these percentiles in a csv, with the second column containing the percentile and the first column containing the corresponding latency.

In addition to calculating 1 to 99 percentile latency, to really focus on the tail latency, we also calculate a log scaled cdf, with most percentile calculated being in between the 90th and 100th percentiles. Since the log scaled cdfs didn't show anything that couldn't be seen with the regular scaled cdfs, we chose not to show them in our paper.

Percentiles are calculated for all 3 protocols, all 3 conflict rates, and both optypes. 
These csvs are automatically generated in the `csvs` folder.

#### Percentile Plotting
With the data nicely formatted into csv files, we use gnuplot to plot the percentiles. These plots are automatically generated in the `plots` folder.

#### Adding log scale
Getting the log scaled csvs requires the following background knowledge:
1. In `calculate_fig_6_csvs()`, the calls to latencies_to_csv() actually return two things. They return normal percentiles and log scale percentiles, but the log scale percentile csvs are currently not being stored into variables.
3. The next thing is you have to plot the log scale percentile csvs, If you try to do this normally with `cdf_csvs_to_plot` in `main()`, the plot won’t scale for you.
   When you call csvs_to_plot, add the argument `log=true`.

### Figure 7 - Tail Latency (n=5)
The workflow for figure 7 is the mostly the same as figure 6, except the conflict rate stays the same and latencies are aggregated from 5 servers instead of 3.

### Throughput vs. p50/p99.9 Latency
This figure requires data in a different format than the previous figures. In the interest of time, we manually collected and formatted the data for plotting. Automating this section will require some extra work. Below, I will detail the manual process.

To get the different throughput vs. latency points shown in the figure, we varied the number of clients that were communicating with the servers. Points with low latency/throughput corresponded with lower number of clients, points with high latency/throughput corresponded with a higher number of clients.

After running each experiment, we would run `client_metrics.py` on the resulting client folder. This would give us three stats of importance: p50 latency, p99.9 latency, and average throughput. We copied these stats into a single row of a csv file. You can find these csv files in the folder `throughput-latency`.

Afterwards, we plotted the csvs of each replication protocol using gnuplot. 

### Write Ratio vs. Throughput
This figure was also collected manually. We ran each replication protocol with the maximum clients it could handle without crashing, varied write percentage, and used `client_metrics.py` on the resulting client folders to give us average throughput. Afterwards, we plotted the csvs of each replication protocol using gnuplot. You can find these csvs in `write_ratio-throughput`.

### Layered (Replication Factor vs. Latency)
This figure was also collected manually. We ran a layered version of gus and giza with varying nodes and measured p99.99 read and write latency using `client_metrics.py`. The csvs are in `layered`. For convenience, the plotting code for the layered plots is all self contained in this folder. Just modify the csvs and run `gus-automation/plotFigs/layered/plot.py`.

### Data Size vs Read Latency
This figure was also collected manually, where we varied data size and used `client_metrics.py` to get p50 and p99 read latency with both Giza and Gus. Data was plotted with gnuplot. The csvs can be found in `data_size-latencies`.

### Scalability
This figure plotted data from Tempo and a scalable verison of Gus. The tempo percentiles were stored in json files from the tempo codebase, and the gus percentiles were calculated in a way similar to how figure 6 and 7 were calculated. For convenience, the plotting code for the scale plots is all self conatained in the `scale` folder. Just modify the gus latency folders or tempo json files and run `gus-automation/plotFigs/scale/plot.py`.

## Package Design
For figures 6 and 7, `plot_figs.py`, `folders_to_norm_latencies.py`, `latencies_to_csv.py`, and `csvs_to_plot.py` were used. Figures 8-11 do not use `folders_to_norm_latencies.py` and `csvs_to_plot.py`. Below I will detail what each file does.

### plot_figs.py
This file acts as the main function for the plotting of the figures. The user inputs the folder locations of the necessary data, and uses the functions in the files listed below to transform the client folders into plots.

The way we organized experiment data is as follows:
- The `latencies` folder corresponds with figures 6 through 7. Experiments are first sorted by replication protocol, and then by conflict rate.
- The `throughput-latency` folder corresponds with figure 8. The data is sorted by replication protocol.
- The `write-ratio-throughput` folder corresponds with figure 9, sorted by replicatoin protocol.
- We are missing the replication factor data that corresponds with figure 10, but I can get this later if needed.
- The `data_size-latencies` folder corresponds with figure 11.

*Note*: All of the experiment data was manually placed into these folders, just so it was easier for the code to find the data it needed. With this fixed structure we only had to input the location of three folders, and the code could figure out where everything else was by itself. 

### folders_to_norm_latencies.py
The function `extract_norm_latencies()` will do the latency aggregation mentioned above.


### latencies_to_csv.py
Given a python list of latencies, the function `latencies_to_csv()` will calculate latency percentiles from 1 to 99 and put them in a csv, returning the path to the newly created csv file. It will also make a second csv with log scaled percentiles.
   - NOTE: This section is beging changed (and already has been changed for fig8) so that latencies are calculated and stored in numpy arrays and then immediately plotted and instead of written to csv files as an intermediate step

### csvs_to_plot.py
Each figure has a specific function in this file that will take the necessary csv files and plot the data using gnuplot like it appears in the paper.

## How to Run
1. Run `python3 plot_figs.py`
2. Results will be in the `plots` target directory.
___
TODO: one thing I realized after writing this doc is that the latency percentiles calculated via `client_metrics.py` did not normalize latencies like the code in `plot_figs.py`. We'll need to fix this.
